
Software Requirements Specification
for
Hotel Management
Version 1.0 approved
Prepared by 
Yashashree Malondkar 20
Sruthi Nair 23
Shreyash Pandey 24

Proposed to
Jessica Ma’am


18/01/2019
Table of Contents
Table of Contents	ii
Revision History	ii
1.	Introduction	1
1.1	Purpose	1
1.2	Document Conventions	1
1.3	Intended Audience and Reading Suggestions	1
1.4	Product Scope	1
1.5	References	1
2.	Overall Description	2
2.1	Product Perspective	2
2.2	Product Functions	2
2.3	User Classes and Characteristics	2
2.4	Operating Environment	2
2.5	Design and Implementation Constraints	2
2.6	User Documentation	2
2.7	Assumptions and Dependencies	3
3.	External Interface Requirements	3
3.1	User Interfaces	3
3.2	Hardware Interfaces	3
3.3	Software Interfaces	3
3.4	Communications Interfaces	3
4.	System Features	4
4.1	System Feature 1	4
4.2	System Feature 2 (and so on)	4
5.	Other Nonfunctional Requirements	4
5.1	Performance Requirements	4
5.2	Safety Requirements	5
5.3	Security Requirements	5
5.4	Software Quality Attributes	5
5.5	Business Rules	5
6.	Other Requirements	5
Appendix A: Glossary	5
Appendix B: Analysis Models	5
Appendix C: To Be Determined List	6



1. Introduction
1.1 Purpose 
Main objective of this project is to provide solution for hotel to manage most there work using computerized process. This software application will help admin to handle customers information, room allocation details, payment details, billing information etc.

1.2 Intended Audience and Reading Suggestions
The intended audience of this document would be owner and specific employees like manager and receptionist of hotel Syska, and project team with the objective to refer and analyze the information.
1.3 Product Scope
The introducing software Hotel Management System which is going to be implemented for Hotel Syska will automate the major operations of the hotel. The reservation system is to keep track in room and hall reservation and check availability. There is three end users for hotel Syska. The end  users are Owner, Manager and Receptionist. Owner can access to all system functionalities without any restrictions. Receptionist can only access to the reservation management system. Manager can access to all system functionalities with limited restrictions. To keep restrictions for each end user levels hotel Syska can create different login functions. 
1.4 References
http://www.scribd.com/doc/27927992/Hotel-Management-Case-Study,  [Accessed: June.28,2014]
2. Overall Description
2.1 Product Perspective
The Hotel Management System is a new self-contained software product which will be produced by the project team in order to overcome the problems that have occurred due to the current manual system. The newly introduced system will provide an easy access to the system and it will contain user friendly functions with attractive interfaces. The system will give better options for the problems of handling large scale of physical system, for the errors occurring in calculation and all the other required task that has been specified by the client. The final outcome of this project will increase the efficiency of almost all the tasks done at the hotel in a much convenient manner.
2.2 Product Functions
Functional requirements

Requirement id: R1.02.04
Title: Booking
Description: Valid e-mail id via login
Priority:1

Roles:  
Requirement id: R1.02.05
Title: Receptionist
Description: Confirmation of online booking
Priority:2

Requirement id: R1.02.01
Title: asking for customer’s order
Description: when customer finalizes the order he gives order to the waiter
Priority:3

Requirement id: R1.02.03
Title: preparing food
Description: preparing as per customer’s requirement
Priority:2

Requirement id: R1.02.02
Title: serving the food
Description: when the food is prepared the waiter serves the food to the customer.
Priority:2
2.3 User Classes and Characteristics
Educational level of HMS computer software – Low
Experience of HMS Software – None
Technical Expertise – Little
2.4 Operating environment
Hardware and Software requirements

Hardware:
1. Operating systems supports all known operating system such as windows, Linux.
 2. Computer 512MB+RAM, monitor with minimum resolutions of 1024x768, keyboard and mouse.
3. Hard drive should be in NTFS file system with minimum 10GB of free space 
4. A Laser printer will need to be used to print these reports and notes.

Software:
1. Software is designed to run on any platform above Microsoft windows 7(32bit).
2. Microsoft .NET frameworks 4.0 or above.
3. Microsoft SQL server management studio express 2010


2.5 Design and Implementation Constraints
Software development crew provides their best effort in developing the system. In order to maintain the reliability and durability of system, some design and implementation constraints are applied. Availability of an android app for hotel management system could make the system portable but due to time constraint it is not possible. system will need a minimum memory of 512MB.but it is recommended to have a memory of 1GB.when designing interfaces of system, we had the capability of working with the new tools such as Dev Express. 
2.6 User Documentation
User manual provide to the client will give a clear idea in interacting with the system.it will be written in a simple understandable language concealing the inner complexity of the system. A hard copy of the user manual will be delivered to the client with the delivery of system

2.7 Assumptions and Dependencies
-The system is not required to save generated reports.
-Credit card payments are not included.
3. External Interface Requirements
3.1 User Interfaces
The user interfaces screens are described in table 1.

Table 1:Hotel Management User Interference Screens
SCREEN NAME
DESCRIPTION
Login
Log into the system as a Admin.
Reservation
Retrieve button, update/save reservation, cancel reservation, modify reservation, change reservation, adjust room rate, accept payment type/ credit card.
Check-in
Modify room stay (eg., new room credit card),check-in customer (with or without a reservation), adjust room rate, special requests, accept payment type/credit card.
Checkout
Checkout customer, generate bill.
Hotel Payment
Accept payment for room and food.
Room Service/Restaurant
Create order, modify order, view order, cancel order, generate meal bill.
Customer Record
Add or update customer records.
Administer Rooms
Availability and rates.
Administer User
Create, Modify and delete users; change password.
Administer Meals
Create, modify and delete meal items and prices.
Reports
Select, view, save and delete reports.

3.2 Hardware Interfaces
The system shall run on Windows based system.
3.3 Software Interfaces
The system shall interface with an Oracle or Access database.
3.4 Communications Interfaces
The system shall be a standalone product that does not require any communication interfaces.
4. Specific Requirements
This includes the features and requirements that is needed by the user as well as the admin to use this platform smoothly and efficiently.
4.1  Functional Requirements
Requirement id	 R1.02.04
Title			 Booking
Description		 Valid e-mail id via login
Priority		 1

Requirement id	 R1.02.05
Title			 Receptionist
Description		 Confirmation of online booking
Priority		 2

Requirement id	 R1.02.01
Title			 Asking for customer’s order
Description		 When customer finalizes the order he gives order to the waiter
Priority		 3

Requirement id	 R1.02.03
Title			 Preparing food
Description		 Preparing as per customer’s requirement
Priority  		 2

Requirement id	 R1.02.02
Title			Serving the food
Description 		When the food is prepared the waiter serves the food to the customer.
Priority		 2

4.2 Nonfunctional Requirements
Requirement id	 R1.02.01
Title 			 providing security
Description 		 this action is done to provide complete security for transaction
Priority		 1

Requirement id	 R1.02.02
Title 			 ID verification 
Description 		 This action is done to verifying ID of registered users
Priority		 2

Requirement id	 R1.02.03
Title			 Payment management
Description		 This action is done to changing user with journey fees.
Priority		 2

Requirement id	 R1.02.06
Title			 Reliable
Description		 This system should be reliable at any given time
Priority		 2
Requirement id	 R1.02.07
Title			 Correctness
Description		 The input entered users should be correct.
Priority		 2
Appendix A: Glossary
Advance rates- low rates advertised by the hotel to encourage guest to book in advance.
Late arrival- Hotels that don’t operate a 24 hrs reception desk will need to make special 			         arrangements for guest who arrived after check-in time.
Check in- the process whereby a guest announces their arrival at the hotel.
Check out- settle one’s hotel bill before leaving 
